ROB DODSON: Hey,
everyone, what's up?
It's Rob Dodson here, from
the Google Developer Relations
Team.
And in this video,
we're going to be
looking at the
core-toolbar element.
Now, I personally
think core-toolbar
is one of the coolest elements
out there, because it's
really handy, and it's
very easy to master.
So let's take a look.
So the core-toolbar is
a really basic container
for laying out controls,
like tabs or buttons.
So what I'm doing here is
I've got a toolbar element
on my page.
And I've just put a div
inside of it that says My App.
And that's going to
give me the title
of my application up
here on the top left.
Now, if I want, I can
nest additional items
inside of here.
I could include a
core-icon button.
Maybe give it an icon menu.
And that's going to give
me this little hamburger
menu that you see up here.
But the other cool thing
that's going to happen
is the toolbar is
smart enough to know
to just scoot my
title out of the way.
It'll just move it over
there horizontally,
and I don't need to write any
CSS to make this happen, which
is pretty handy.
Now, the toolbar also comes
with some built-in stylings.
For instance, if you give
it a class of medium-tall,
you can see that it gets
just a little bit bigger.
And if we give it a class of
tall, it'll get even larger.
All right.
Now, there's some
really cool things
that we can do with these
larger toolbars, so let's hop
into our terminal.
We'll actually install
everything using Bower,
and we'll use our Code
Editor to show off
some of these
additional features.
So over in our
terminal, we're going
to use Bower to install
the core-toolbar.
So I'll type bower install.
I'll pass the Save flag,
which is really important,
so that way, these
dependencies get
written to in my
Bower JSON file.
Then, I'm going to ask
for Polymer/core-toolbar.
I'll ask for
Polymer/paper-icon-button,
which we haven't
touched on before,
but we'll be demonstrating
in this video.
I'm also going to ask for
the paper-progress element,
another cool element that
we're going to show off today.
So that's going to
go out and fetch
all these different
dependencies.
And once that's loaded, we can
switch over to our Code Editor.
So over here, we've
got the basics
of an application ready to go.
And the first thing
we're going to need to do
is we're going to
include the platform.
And that way, we can
use web components
in browsers that lack support.
So I'll say, bower_components
/platforms/platform.js.
Now that that's in
place, I can go ahead
and import the definition
for our core-toolbar.
So, I'll say
bower_components/core-toobar,
ask for core-toolbar.html.
And then I can hop
down to my body tag,
and drop a core-toolbar element
right there on the page.
And inside, we'll just
nest a little div,
and we'll say My App for the
title of our application.
Now, some of you
may have noticed
this fullbleed
attribute and wondered,
what's this all about?
Well, that's actually one
of our layout attributes.
And what it's
going to do is it's
going to make sure that the
browser, that the body tag
within it, doesn't have any
white space around the outside.
So our toolbar is
going to go right up
to the edge of the screen
and look really nice.
So refresh the page, and
what we're going to see
is our toolbar showing up.
And it's going
right up to the edge
of the browser,
which is really cool.
And right now, it's kind
of this drab grey color.
It's not super
exciting to look at.
So we can change that by
going back into our Editor.
And we'll just drop
in a style sheet.
So I'm going to pop open
the sidebar in Sublime,
create a new file.
And I'm just going to
call this thing app.css.
And over in app.css, I'll write
a style for the core-toolbar.
So I'll ask for a core-toolbar.
Set the background color
equal to-- actually,
I've got one saved here.
I'll just drop that in.
And then we'll set the color
equal to white for the text.
And back in our
index file, we got
to make sure to include
that style sheet
so our styles actually show up.
Now when we go and
refresh the browser,
we've got a slightly
nicer looking toolbar.
It's got kind of a cool color
to it and some white text.
But it's still missing
controls, so you can't really
do much with it.
So let's change that.
We'll go back to our Editor.
And we're going to import
some more definitions here.
We're going to
import the definition
for that paper-icon-button
that we installed earlier.
Now we haven't really talked
about the paper-icon-button.
But we did show the
core-icon-button
in one of the previous videos.
And you can think of
the paper-icon-button
as being basically the same
as the core-icon-button,
but it's just got a little
bit more pizazz to it.
So I'm also going to be
sure to load the definition
for the core-icons elements set.
This will just give
me the default icons
that I can start working
with, and dropping them
into my paper-icon-button.
And then down in
my toolbar, I'll
include the paper-icon-button.
And I'll configure its icon
attribute, and I'll say,
I want a menu icon.
So now when I
refresh the page, I
get this little hamburger
menu over on the left.
And when I click on it, you this
the sort of splashy ink effect.
That's the cool pizazz that
I was talking about before.
Now, I want another icon, so
I'll just duplicate this line
here, and I'll
add a search icon.
And we go back and refresh
the page in our browser,
now we've got this magnifying
glass over here as well.
But the problem is the layout
is not exactly what I want.
I kind of what the
Search icon to appear
like somewhere over here,
over on the right-hand side
of my application.
So in our Editor,
what I'm going to do
is I'm just going to give
the div a flex attribute.
And because the toolbar
is using flexbox
to lay out its
children, you'll see
that now, our magnifying
glass moves all the way over
to the right-hand
side of the screen.
The title is kind of
pushing it over there.
Well, that's really
cool, but there's
a slight problem
to this approach.
If we open the DevTools, and
we actually inspect the My App
element, you can
see that it sort
of spans this entire distance.
And if I made My App a clickable
link or something like that,
then this whole area in
here would be clickable,
and we don't really want that.
So what we're going to do is
instead of putting the flex
attribute on My App, we'll
just drop in a span tag,
and we'll put the flex
attribute on that.
And this is kind of a
little bit of a trick,
but it's pretty handy.
And now when we
open the DevTools,
you'll see that
My App is only as
big as the content inside of it.
And that span tag is
basically shimming the space
between the title of our app
and that magnifying glass.
All right, so if you recall
at the beginning of the video,
I said that there's some
really cool features
that we get from working
with larger toolbars.
Now that our toolbars
are showing up,
we've got some controls
inside of them,
we're going to actually
explore those awesome features.
Let's check it out.
So over in our Code Editor, the
first thing we're going to do
is we're going to add a tall
class to our core-toolbar.
And that's going to give us
that much larger toolbar that we
showed earlier in the slides.
So save this and go
and refresh the page.
And now, we've got this
much larger toolbar
that we can work with.
And now that we've
got a bigger toolbar,
the interesting
thing that we can do
is we can actually start
pinning these child elements
to different locations
within the toolbar.
So if you look at
our Code Editor,
I'm going to hop
down to this div tag,
and I'm just going to
give it a class of bottom.
And what that's going
to do is it's actually
going to jump My App down to
the bottom of the toolbar.
It's pretty nice.
Now, there's a few
other built-in classes.
If I want, I can pop
back into my editor,
and bump it up to the
middle of the toolbar.
Save that and
refresh the page, We
can also indent the
title if we want,
just sort of scoot
it over a little bit.
Now, the other interesting
thing that we can do
is we can actually fit an
item right to the bottom
without any sort of margin
or padding or anything.
You can imagine loading
something like a progress bar
down there.
And in fact, that's exactly
what we're going to do.
So hop back into my
Code Editor, and I'm
going to import the definition
for that paper-progress element
that we installed before.
Now, paper-progress is basically
just a really simple progress
bar.
I'm going to clean this
up just a little bit,
so the import looks a bit nicer.
And then down here
in my core-toolbar,
I'll drop in the
paper-progress element.
I'll give it a class.
We're going to use the
bottom class, which
you saw before to move it
to the bottom of the screen.
Then we'll give
it another class.
We'll add a fit
class, and that's
going to remove any
margin or padding
from the toolbar itself.
We'll also give
it a value of 30,
so that you can see that it's
kind of partially filled up.
And now, when I
refresh the screen,
you'll see that I've got this
sort of green toolbar here,
and you've kind of got this gray
area where it's not filled in.
So that's one way that
you could add a progress
bar to your application.
And you could imagine
updating that value attribute
using something like JavaScript,
so you see this thing kind
of animating and
zipping along as content
is loading into the page.
So that about covers
everything you
need to know to work
with the core-toolbar.
It's not a very complex
element, and that's
kind of the beauty of it.
Once you've mastered
it, you can just
reach for it out of your
toolbox, the same way
that you pull out
div, paragraph, table.
In the next video,
I'm going to show you
how you can incorporate
the core-toolbar
with some other
scaffolding elements,
and we're going
to begin to build
what look like the beginnings
of mobile applications.
So stay tuned for that.
Hope to see you there.